doc/deployment.md, before:

Deployment of Hummingbird with Ansible
======================================

Prerequisites
-------------

The documentation below assumes:

  1.  A recent version of Ansible is installed on an admin machine or vm that has access to all nodes in the cluster.  This can be easily accomplished by running the `bootstrap.sh` script.
  2.  The user that you will be runing the ansible script as has SUDO access to all nodes in the cluster.

Example Configuration
---------------------

The following configuration is used for the examples in this documentation:

| Server | IP | SATA Devices | SSD Devices |
| ------ | -- | ------------ | ----------- |
| storage1 | 10.1.1.10 | /dev/sdd, /dev/sde, /dev/sdf, /dev/sdg | /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc | 
| storage2 | 10.1.1.11 | /dev/sdd, /dev/sde, /dev/sdf, /dev/sdg | /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc | 
| storage3 | 10.1.1.12 | /dev/sdd, /dev/sde, /dev/sdf, /dev/sdg | /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc |

Configuring the Ring
--------------------

Note: Hansible will partition and format the devices by default, which will append a `1` to the device so be sure to use that when adding the device into the ring.  For example `sdb`, once partitioned, will be `sdb1`.

If you do not yet have a Hummingbird binary, it can be downloaded directly from https://troubling.github.io/hummingbird/bin/hummingbird

The ring is managed outside of Ansible with the `hummingbird` command line.  Ansible will distribute the ring files to the nodes of the cluster.  The ring files will need to be stored in `/etc/hummingbird` on the admin node:

  1.  Create the etc dir for the ring: `sudo mkdir -p /etc/hummingbird`
  2.  Set the permissions: `sudo chown -R $USER.$USER /etc/hummingbird`

It can be useful to create a script to create the initial account, container and object rings.  When configuring the ring, a good starting point is to use `3` replicas, a part power of `22`, and a min part hours of `162` for most clusters.  The following example also uses the SATA devices for the object servers and the SSD devices for the account and container servers.  For more advanced info on using the ring, see the Hummingbird documentation.

Note: The weight of the device (`100` in the example below) should be set to the total capacity of the device.

`make_rings.sh`:
```
#!/bin/bash

cd /etc/hummingbird

hummingbird ring object.builder create 22 3 168
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sdd1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sde1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sdf1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sdg1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sdd1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sde1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sdf1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sdg1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sdd1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sde1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sdf1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sdg1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder rebalance

hummingbird ring container.builder create 22 3 168
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6001/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6001/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6001/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6001/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6001/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6001/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder rebalance

hummingbird ring account.builder create 22 3 168
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6002/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6002/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6002/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6002/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6002/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6002/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder rebalance
```

Set `make_rings.sh` to be executable and run:

  1.  `chmod 755 make_rings.sh`
  2.  `./make_rings.sh`

Note: It is *VERY* important to keep and backup the `*.builder` files for when ring modifications are made.

Setup Ansible for Hummingbird
-----------------------------

Check out the Hansible repository which is responsible for Ansible playbooks and roles for Humminbird.

  1.  `git clone https://github.com/troubling/hansible.git`
  2.  `cd hansible`

Edit the inventory (`./hosts') to reflect your hardware configures.  For more information on configuring the inventory, see the Hansible documentaiton.  An example inventory for the example configuration would look like:

```
[hummingbird]
10.1.1.10 service_ip=10.1.1.10
10.1.1.11 service_ip=10.1.1.11
10.1.1.12 service_ip=10.1.1.12
```

Edit the group variables ('./group_vars/hummingbird/hummingbird') to set cluster specific information.  For more information on group variables, see the Hansible documentation.  The group vars for the example configuration would look like:

```
---
# Devices that will be used for account, container and object storage
storage_devs: ["sdb", "sdc", "sdd", "sde", "sdf", "sdg"]


proxy_port: 8080
# Only change the following if you are not going to use default ports
#object_port: 6000
#container_port: 6001
#account_port: 6002
#object_replicator_port: 6500
#container_replicator_port: 6501
#account_replicator_port: 6502

# Set the following to true if you would like to use tempauth
use_temp_auth: true
hash_prefix: changeme
hash_suffix: changeme
filebeat_logstash_hosts:
  - "localhost"
filebeat_logging_paths:
  - paths:
    - '/var/log/hummingbird/*.log'
```

Install Hummingbird with Ansible
--------------------------------

Hummingbird should now be able to be installed with ansible:

`ansible-playbook -i hosts hummingbird.yml`

If that it completes successfully, then you should have a hummingbird cluster running.  To quickly test if things are running you can try to auth with:

`curl http://10.1.1.10:8080/auth/v1.0 -Hx-auth-user:test:tester -Hx-auth-key:testing -i`

Upgrading Hummingbird
---------------------

By default, hansible will install the latest github release version. In a production environment, you likely want to install a specific version. The release tag can be specified in group_vars. A list of releases can be found here: https://github.com/troubling/hummingbird/releases

Example:

`hummingbird_version: "v0.0.2"`

When it is time to upgrade to "v0.0.3" simply update your group_vars/hummingbird/hummingbird and rerun the playbook. Services will be reloaded after the new binary is downloaded. If any upgrades require any additional steps, those will need to be documented in the hummingbird release version.

Commit message:

Add OS and OpenStack version requirements

doc/deployment.md, after:

Deployment of Hummingbird with Ansible
======================================

Prerequisites
-------------

The documentation below assumes:

  1.  A recent version of Ansible is installed on an admin machine or vm that has access to all nodes in the cluster.  This can be easily accomplished by running the `bootstrap.sh` script.
  2.  The user that you will be runing the ansible script as has ssh keys and sudo access to all nodes in the cluster.
  3.  The nodes in your cluster are running Ubuntu 16.04 or later.
  4.  If you are running keystone auth, it is from Openstack Newton or later.

Example Configuration
---------------------

The following configuration is used for the examples in this documentation:

| Server | IP | SATA Devices | SSD Devices |
| ------ | -- | ------------ | ----------- |
| storage1 | 10.1.1.10 | /dev/sdd, /dev/sde, /dev/sdf, /dev/sdg | /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc | 
| storage2 | 10.1.1.11 | /dev/sdd, /dev/sde, /dev/sdf, /dev/sdg | /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc | 
| storage3 | 10.1.1.12 | /dev/sdd, /dev/sde, /dev/sdf, /dev/sdg | /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc |

Configuring the Ring
--------------------

Note: Hansible will partition and format the devices by default, which will append a `1` to the device so be sure to use that when adding the device into the ring.  For example `sdb`, once partitioned, will be `sdb1`.

If you do not yet have a Hummingbird binary, it can be downloaded directly from https://troubling.github.io/hummingbird/bin/hummingbird

The ring is managed outside of Ansible with the `hummingbird` command line.  Ansible will distribute the ring files to the nodes of the cluster.  The ring files will need to be stored in `/etc/hummingbird` on the admin node:

  1.  Create the etc dir for the ring: `sudo mkdir -p /etc/hummingbird`
  2.  Set the permissions: `sudo chown -R $USER.$USER /etc/hummingbird`

It can be useful to create a script to create the initial account, container and object rings.  When configuring the ring, a good starting point is to use `3` replicas, a part power of `22`, and a min part hours of `162` for most clusters.  The following example also uses the SATA devices for the object servers and the SSD devices for the account and container servers.  For more advanced info on using the ring, see the Hummingbird documentation.

Note: The weight of the device (`100` in the example below) should be set to the total capacity of the device.

`make_rings.sh`:
```
#!/bin/bash

cd /etc/hummingbird

hummingbird ring object.builder create 22 3 168
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sdd1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sde1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sdf1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6000/sdg1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sdd1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sde1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sdf1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6000/sdg1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sdd1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sde1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sdf1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6000/sdg1 100
hummingbird ring object.builder rebalance

hummingbird ring container.builder create 22 3 168
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6001/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6001/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6001/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6001/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6001/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6001/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring container.builder rebalance

hummingbird ring account.builder create 22 3 168
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6002/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z1-10.1.1.10:6002/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6002/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z2-10.1.1.11:6002/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6002/sdb1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder add r1z3-10.1.1.12:6002/sdc1 100
hummingbird ring account.builder rebalance
```

Set `make_rings.sh` to be executable and run:

  1.  `chmod 755 make_rings.sh`
  2.  `./make_rings.sh`

Note: It is *VERY* important to keep and backup the `*.builder` files for when ring modifications are made.

Setup Ansible for Hummingbird
-----------------------------

Check out the Hansible repository which is responsible for Ansible playbooks and roles for Humminbird.

  1.  `git clone https://github.com/troubling/hansible.git`
  2.  `cd hansible`

Edit the inventory (`./hosts') to reflect your hardware configures.  For more information on configuring the inventory, see the Hansible documentaiton.  An example inventory for the example configuration would look like:

```
[hummingbird]
10.1.1.10 service_ip=10.1.1.10
10.1.1.11 service_ip=10.1.1.11
10.1.1.12 service_ip=10.1.1.12
```

Edit the group variables ('./group_vars/hummingbird/hummingbird') to set cluster specific information.  For more information on group variables, see the Hansible documentation.  The group vars for the example configuration would look like:

```
---
# Devices that will be used for account, container and object storage
storage_devs: ["sdb", "sdc", "sdd", "sde", "sdf", "sdg"]


proxy_port: 8080
# Only change the following if you are not going to use default ports
#object_port: 6000
#container_port: 6001
#account_port: 6002
#object_replicator_port: 6500
#container_replicator_port: 6501
#account_replicator_port: 6502

# Set the following to true if you would like to use tempauth
use_temp_auth: true
hash_prefix: changeme
hash_suffix: changeme
filebeat_logstash_hosts:
  - "localhost"
filebeat_logging_paths:
  - paths:
    - '/var/log/hummingbird/*.log'
```

Install Hummingbird with Ansible
--------------------------------

Hummingbird should now be able to be installed with ansible:

`ansible-playbook -i hosts hummingbird.yml`

If that it completes successfully, then you should have a hummingbird cluster running.  To quickly test if things are running you can try to auth with:

`curl http://10.1.1.10:8080/auth/v1.0 -Hx-auth-user:test:tester -Hx-auth-key:testing -i`

Upgrading Hummingbird
---------------------

By default, hansible will install the latest github release version. In a production environment, you likely want to install a specific version. The release tag can be specified in group_vars. A list of releases can be found here: https://github.com/troubling/hummingbird/releases

Example:

`hummingbird_version: "v0.0.2"`

When it is time to upgrade to "v0.0.3" simply update your group_vars/hummingbird/hummingbird and rerun the playbook. Services will be reloaded after the new binary is downloaded. If any upgrades require any additional steps, those will need to be documented in the hummingbird release version.
